# 20-News-Groups-K-Means-Clustering

This is an exploration for K-Means clustering in the 20 News Group Dataset.  The 20 News Groups Dataset is a collection of more than 18000 news group posts from 20 different online news group forums from the late 1990's.  Individual elements of the dataset are messages posted by users to one of the 20 different groups and are very conversational in nature in that the posts contain emoticons, interjections, etc.   Elements from the dataset are labeled with an integer between 0 and 19, which corresponds to the original news group that the post comes from.
Before presenting data to any models, each post was preprocessed using stemming and count vectorization. Count vectorization is a way of converting posts to a bag-of-words where each post is represented as a vector where vector elements are counts of words from the corpus. Stemming takes each post and determines stems of words, so that "image" and "imaging" are counted as similarly since they refer to the same topic. 
Once preprocessing is complete, three different K-Means clustering models are trained.  These three models correspond to K=15, K=20, and K=25.  Model performance was evaluated by homogeneity and completeness of clusters.  Homogeneity for clustering is a scale from 0.0 (perfectly non-homogenous) to 1.0 (perfectly homogenous) which is computed by counting the number of posts with the same class label that are placed in the same cluster. Similarly, completeness is a scale from 0.0 (perfectly incomplete) to 1.0 (perfectly complete) which is computed by counting the number of posts that share a class label that are placed in the same cluster.  
Additionally, three pseudo-posts were created and introduced to the model to detemrine which cluster these pesudo-posts would belong to.  Then, three posts from the cluster that each pseudo-post was assigned to were returned: the most similar post, a relatively similar post, and the most dissimilar post from the cluster.  This was done to manually test the quality of clustering. 
In any case, the models for K=15 and K=20 had the best results; K=15 had the highest homogeneity and K=20 had the highest completeness. 
